Ruholamin Haqshanas is a contributing crypto writer for CryptoNews. He is a crypto and finance journalist with over four years of experience. Ruholamin has been featured in several high-profile crypto... Robert Kiyosaki, a world-renowned entrepreneur and author, has revealed that he buys more Bitcoin as he doesn’t trust the U.S. dollar, which he termed as “fake.” Kiyosaki, who is the best-selling author of Rich Dad Poor Dad, has issued a stark warning regarding the weakening U.S. dollar during a recnet interview with Kitco News.  Citing aspects such as excessive printing, the American entrepreneur argued that the days of the U.S. dollar as the reserve currency of the world are numbered. “The dollar was as good as gold, that’s all changed, and today, we’re in serious trouble globally, and I’m very concerned the end of the American Empire is here,” he stated.  In contrast, Kiyosaki said he believes in the lasting value of Bitcoin and other precious metals like gold and silver. He mentioned that even when Bitcoin crashes, it comes “roaring back,” proving that the flagship cryptocurrency has sustainability.  “When I saw Bitcoin go to $20,000, I don’t know when it was, then it dropped down. But then it came roaring back… so the more I’m in it the more I realize it has sustainability. So the reason people buy Bitcoin is the same reason I buy this [silver]. And I buy this [gold]. I don’t trust this [dollar bills].”  For years I have been saying, “Saving money,& investing in a well diversified portfolio of stocks, bonds, mutual funds & ETF’s is risky advice. Today very risky advice. I still believe Gold, silver, Bitcoin best for unstable times, although prices will go up and down. Take care. Kiyosaki has long been an advocate of Bitcoin, preferring the leading cryptocurrency over other altcoins. Earlier this year, he revealed that he is acquiring more BTC because it is classified as a commodity much like gold and silver while other altcoins are classified as securities “and SEC regulations will crush most of them.” The best-seller author also continues to make wild predictions about the price of Bitcoin. Earlier this month, he forecasted that Bitcoin price will skyrocket to $500,000 by 2025.   Giant crash coming. Depression possible. Fed forced to print billions in fake money. By 2025 gold at $5,000 silver at $500 and Bitcoin at $500,000. Why? Because faith in US dollar, fake money, will be destroyed. Gold & Silver Gods money. Bitcoin people’s $. Take care. Despite a flurry of aggressive regulatory actions from U.S. authorities, the flagship cryptocurrency has been on an uptrend as of late. According to data by CoinGecko, Bitcoin is up by more than 14% over the past two weeks.  Bryan Courchesne, founder and CEO of DAIM, an asset manager of cryptocurrencies and traditional equities, noted that the flagship cryptocurrency appreciated more than 15% last week. He said that while such movements are not that prevalent in TradFi, they are a “fairly common occurrence” in crypto markets.  “In fact from 2017 through 2021 Bitcoin experienced at least 5 of these such weeks every year and averaged more than 6,” Courchesne said in a comment, adding that there were only three weeks that generated these outsized returns in 2022.  “So you could say that we were overdue for the recent rally that saw us catapult from about $17k to $23k in January. While history doesn’t necessarily repeat, we think that given where we are in terms of price and halving cycle, it is not unreasonable to expect even more big weeks ahead.”